<pre>
MID: 1
Title: MID Purpose and Guidelines
Author: Spirobel
version: 0.1.0 - 14 May 2026, Initial release
implemented_by: monero-wallet-api [v0.1.0]
</pre>

# What is a MID?

MID stands for Monero Interface Definition. A MID is a design document to coordinate, document and aid the orderly expansion of
standards that define the interaction with privacy preserving p2p digital cash.

# MID Format and Template

MIDs should be written in markdown format.

Because the MIDs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the standardization proposal.

Every Commit touching a MID needs to include a new version and date.
The version number in the preamble needs to be incremented on each commit.

The preamble needs to include the libraries or software programs that currently implement the standard. (e.g. monero-wallet-api)

The version number of the standard, that the specific software is implementing currently, has to be in included in square brackets in the preamble behind the implementer name. (e.g. [v0.1.0])

The implementers are a comma separated list of the libraries or software programs that implement the standard. (e.g. monero-wallet-api, other-software)

The repository URL needs to be included in the postamble. (e.g. https://github.com/spirobel/monero-wallet-api)

## Exluded Activities & Persons

Centralized Terror Organizations (sometimes referred to as Governments) are based on money-like instruments that are structurally at odds with privacy preservering p2p digital cash.

As such we can not allow any person that has been or is employed by a CTO to partcipate in the MID standardization process.

Furthermore there are CTO associated industries that engage in prohibited activities. These include but are not limited to:

- Tax Compliance (the collection of information that enables CTOs to conduct theft)
- Blockchain Surveillance
- Surveillance, for any other purpose (including advertisements, tracking, "rewards programs", etc)
- Censorship and propaganda, also in more subtle forms like "content recommendation systems" (also known as RecSys)
- Any kind of software or product that uses "nudge theory"
- Development / maintenance / enablement of systems related to Digital Identity, "Health Related Passports", "eID", "Age Verification", "Know Your Customer"

People with employment histories in these fields are also prohibited from participating in the MID standardization process.

Whistle blower exemption: People that have been sentenced or are currently wanted for conducting an action against a CTO or associated industries,

that shows their values are not at odds with privacy preserving p2p digital cash, are exempted from the MID standardization process exclusion and are allowed to participate.

If there are currently no proceedings against them by the CTO and it is clear beyond reasonable doubt, that their action is permanently life altering (e.g necessitating a permanent change of location) that may suffice as proof.

# Mandatory Sections

Aside from the mandatory sections listed below, the structure of the MID is up to the proposer.

Privacy preserving p2p digital cash needs to fulfill a certain standard of privacy, scalability and censorship resistance. Many people have to be able to use it for their day to day activities. Finality needs be reasonably fast, throughput needs to be high and the network needs to be secure against information leakages and central points that could be used to introduce censorship.

That is why every MID needs to include the following sections and clearly address these concerns:

### Privacy Implications

The privacy implications of the MID. If the MID does not adequately address privacy implications, it should be rejected by the MID repository maintainers.

### Scalability Implications

The scalability implications of the MID. If the MID does not adequately address scalability implications, it should be rejected by the MID repository maintainers.

### Censorship Resistance Implications

The censorship resistance implications of the MID. If the MID does not adequately address censorship resistance implications, it should be rejected by the MID repository maintainers.

### Postamble

markdown unorded list of implementers repositories like:

- implementer: monero-wallet-api,
  repository: https://github.com/spirobel/monero-wallet-api

## Commit Message Template

First line should include the version number of the standard, the date and the subject of the commit. In this format:

0.1.0 - 14 May 2026, Initial release

The rest of the commit message should include a short description of the changes made to the standard. Reasons for the changes should be included. Changes to Privacy Implications or Scalability Implications & Censorship Resistance Implications should be explicitly mentioned.

If the reasons are insufficient to justify a new version of the standard, the commit should be rejected by the MID repository maintainers. Especially when the implications for privacy or scalability & censorship resistance worsen.

## Postamble

- implementer: monero-wallet-api,
  repository: https://github.com/spirobel/monero-wallet-api
